there is no collapse or crisis according
to the government and mainstream media
the country could be burning to the
ground and left in a pile of rubble and
they would still try to suggest that
everything is just fine economic
indicators prove we're seeing worsening
conditions the question is which
indicators are important and what
exactly are we looking for you came here
for the truth today we are going to get
into the top eight indicators I believe
are very critical indicators related to
the global economic
collapse now I'm showing you eight but
there are thousands thousands of
different indicators that I've shown
throughout the
years let's look at these eight today I
believe these to be very very important
beginning with the civilian labor force
participation rate and just to stop for
a moment these may be for the us but you
have no matter where you live you've got
similar or the exact same
indicators so just do some searching and
you will find these for
yourself the civilian labor force
participation rate measures the actual
amount of people working when you look
at the unemploy employment rate which in
the US is provided by the BLS the Bureau
of Labor
Statistics what you see is a falsified
figure and the way they do this is
simply that if you've been working if
you've been looking for work for one
year or more you're wiped off the
statistics and that's how it's done of
course individuals who just graduated
out of school and are now looking for
work
they may not end up on these indicators
either so it's very skewed so instead we
look at the actual total amount of
people employed and judging by this
chart you can see what has happened
approximately the year 2000 you see a
decline ever since and the decline is
significant there is no doubt about that
and you're going back to decades old
measurements here and that show shows me
how bad the situation truly is in terms
of employment moving on the Baltic dry
index while this is something that
fluctuates up and down as time goes on
it is clearly obvious during the
financial crisis it took a big dive and
in fact it did so after hitting some
alltime Highs but in general we have a
decline on our hands as well the Baltic
dry index is essentially a shipping
indicator it would be something along
the lines of how many people are
importing and exporting how many people
are shipping how many people people are
buying and selling that's sort of what
we look at with the Baltic dry index
there are many many indicators of the uh
shipping industry but this happens to be
one of the most important so definitely
look at that and look at the fact that
at this time we are near record lows if
you go to uh look at Bloomberg index or
something you may get the fiveyear
picture and things look a lot more Rosy
when you're you know presented with an
indicator around that
range at least it doesn't look that bad
but compare it to what we have seen we
are looking at Dire Straits at this time
in related to the shipping
situation this is right out of the St
Louis fed a very important website all
federal reserve banks total assets so
essentially what we're looking at is the
balance sheet of the Federal Reserve how
much money have they printed and they're
willing to talk about well this right
here shows you although stagnant over
the past let's say couple years you know
specifically here we go financial
crisis extremely high
and ever since then has been increasing
to the tune of 4 and5 trillion dollar
you can see that there was a steady
increase over the years prior just
slowly slowly creeping up creating
inflation but during the financial
crisis that went
parabolic so again we want to look at
the Federal Reserve and their actions
and what exactly they are doing I'm
always following that this is the US
debt clock when they also have um you
know their debt clocks for other
countries too so definitely check out
this site one of the important things on
here is the US national debt this is an
indicator which I like to look at I do
believe that it is covered up and we can
see that at some points it just remains
stagnant for a long period of time which
is obviously false however I do believe
it is important just to show the amount
of debt put on the system and it shows
you other things debt per citizen debt
per taxpayer and so on it also shows you
the
deficits that we are into at this time
there are other indicators that I really
really like on the US dead clock one of
them being
poverty and uh others in this region
here poverty being a very important one
because that is a true indicator far
beyond you know unemployment statistics
and the fake inflation and all
that us food inflation and this is the
manipulation that we
see I'm showing you this
chart
to try to get it through your
head that this is
fake according to
this in real terms
you're
looking
at a you know this goes back to
1920 basically what they're trying to
suggest and I can't believe
this that there has been no food
inflation since 1920 in real
terms that's when you know there is a
manipulation that there is a a
falsification of the figures that we
see I suggest instead of looking at the
charts for food inflation look at your
bills think about the price of a basic
food that you have been buying every
week for you know
decades whatever that would be to you
whether it's you know a loaf of bread um
milk or or whatever
I don't know about you but these things
are constantly constantly adding up and
it just seems to me that these that the
true indicator how much I spend at the
store is not in let's say collaboration
with what we would see in the charts so
check out the stores for that
one this right here back to the St Louis
fed govern
social benefits and specifically the
snap program also known as food stamps
food stamps are a critical indicator
because once again just like poverty
they show the real situation and while
over the years there has been an
increase in the amount of recipients of
snap since approximately the year 2000 a
very very critical time frame although
the crash I believe was rather limited
that we experienced the doom
boom I do believe that that moment in
the year 200000 was very critical around
2201 it started off a lot of things
that's not the topic of this video but
I'm just showing you that now while
there has been a little bit of a taper
off I mean you're
still at I believe it is 45 million plus
plus people currently on the snap
program when 45 million people need a
food stamp to
survive you have a critical
situation consumer inflation now Shadow
stats provide some excellent excellent
recalculations of certain statistics
certain indicators
they do
unemployment real unemployment they do
inflation there's there's a lot on there
if you haven't seen it for yourself
Shadow stats John Williams who is one of
a few that
recalculate in this case here
inflation
based on the
1980s
method and that is using their own
methods but the way they were
calculating it back in 1980 that's
what's critical about it's not his own
calculation he's just doing it based on
the old school
way
so the red is the fake inflation that we
see provided by the
government and you'll see it to be let's
say 2% or
so and notice the
numbers relatively track each
other but they seem to be you know
there's
this divide that I can see here that
just keeps on growing and
growing regardless you look at this and
you're seeing about 10%
inflation to be
fair because it all depends on what you
buy and what city you live in and
there's a lot of factors but to be fair
I think we could put it somewhere right
in the middle and we're looking at about
at at least
5% I mean that's minimum when you look
at some of these Energy prices the
electricity that we're paying for it
seems like it's a lot more than
5% but let's be conservative and say
we're about twice a little more than
twice as high as the indicators that
they are showing us
so inflation obviously very important
the way you do that is the easiest way
Beyond looking at Shadow stats is to
when you're at the grocery store see
what you're paying how much it's
increasing by not just month to month
but look more on year over year and then
you compare that to uh or also in
addition to the electricity prices that
you pay so these are two very very
important indicators and and then this
last but not least United States
building permits and this is again
available I saw for Canada as well I
believe building permits are a
relatively good sign for what's coming
down the pipeline here as you can
see how
many how much construction there is how
much interest there is in you know
all of the all the things that go in
there when we have the um Commodities
that are being used the copper for the
wiring and the steel construction and
the concrete and everything that's
involved in that so building permits I
believe lead to a lot of consumption and
it's done so on a rather Grand scale
because it's not you as an individual
going to the store buying an iPod it's a
lot bigger than that so building permits
are are great indicator I believe of
what's to come so if these start
declining as they did during the
financial crisis you could see that
actually this is uh basically showing
you it's hard to tell here but
essentially you're looking at financial
crisis and ever since then it's been
increasing there's no doubt but we are
still at uh really uh severe lows
compared to what we could have at this
time so we really need that to
accelerate in the US hopefully it we'll
do so I'm not really convinced about it
but we'll
see and these were the eight indicators
that I believe are important there are
many many more I will definitely cover
these as time goes on I'll add more and
more and more but I just wanted you to
see these here this is something that
you won't get out there a lot of people
don't want to share what they look at
they it's like they're keeping the
information to themselves or something
it's a little bit silly but anyway I'm
trying to just give out as much
information as possible so I hope you do
appreciate that that's what I'm here to
do I I find the information I collect it
I I'm like a information aggregator and
then I try to put it together if uh in
in simple videos like this or if it's
more of a complicated subject than I put
it together in a book so I hope you
appreciate that once again if if you
found this video informative please give
me a thumbs up last but not least if you
found the video informative I know you
will find my book The Money GPS even
more informative so head over to Amazon
where you can actually look through the
book for yourself take
care it is
now exactly 400 a.m. so I believe that
it
is way
past my
bedtime thank you all for tuning in